---
layout: post
title:  how to grow an accidental chia pet
date:   2018-12-08 16:40:16
description: an intro to this blog
---

Hello to the cyberspace world. Our names are Julia and Emily. We are, respectively, a consultant and a computer scientist. We’ve been friends for years, and we have a lot of weird thoughts we finally decided to share with the world. That’s what this blog will be for: giving life to the strange thoughts that bounce around in our heads day-to-day. Some of these thoughts are significant; most of them aren’t. Regardless, we think we’re funny, and we know that the world can be downright mean. Sometimes, it’s nice to take life with a grain of salt and a laugh or two. We hope the Accidental Chia Pet can provide both for you. 

Of course, you’re probably wondering how much we are being paid for the Chia Pet endorsement in our blog title. The answer is $0, and please don’t tell the Chia Pet company that we exist because we’re poor and would rather avoid a lawsuit. Rather, the name comes from an incident in our college years. 

We lived together our sophomore and junior years of college, and during our junior year housing services decided we were “mature” enough to live in an off-campus apartment with two other women. The basis for this mystifying judgement remains elusive. Honored and overwhelmed by the independence of living “on our own,” we entered junior year with gusto. We tried hard to keep a clean house, which mostly looked like us thinking about vacuuming and occasionally doing laundry when we ran out of underwear. 

One major area oft-overlooked, however, was the kitchen sink. In our defense, does anyone really think about the kitchen sink? We set out a nice dish towel to hold dishes as they dried and didn’t give the area another thought — that is, until one fine March morning. 

For some reason, Julia had been struck with a cleaning fit, and she decided to tackle the Bermuda Triangle that was our kitchen. NOT SURE HOW TO FINISH THIS. 

And that is the story of our Accidental Chiapet. For better or worse, that story is emblematic of our lives both during and post-college. We work hard, we care deeply, and we sometimes think we have it alot more together than we actually do. We look forward to sharing our thoughts with you. 



#### Alternative Titles Considered
We have many more stories that lend themselves to blog titles. A few alternatives considered are included below. The stories associated with these will be written at a later date. 
<ul>
	<li>Two White Girls & A Computer</li>
	<li>Under Every Outfit is a Groutfit</li>
	<li>Can You See My Eye Twitching? And Other Misadventures</li>
	<li>The Burpee Queens -- A Non-Fitness Blog</li>
</ul>


<blockquote>
	We do not grow absolutely, chronologically. We grow sometimes in one dimension, and not in another, unevenly. We grow partially. We are relative. We are mature in one realm, childish in another. 
	—Anais Nin
</blockquote>

