---
layout: post
title:  i'm a yogurt-eating bathrobe-dweller
date:   2019-02-23 19:49:28
description: on seeing humanity in everyone.
author: Emily
---

In my previous job, I spent most of my day projecting an image of confidence I didn’t always feel. Partly this projection is my personality — I have a special knack for appearing to know what I’m doing when actually I’m panicking inside (this has gotten my family lost on road trips on more than one occasion). Partly this was because I was often the only woman in the room and consequently felt a strange pressure to appear highly competent (this will be the subject of a later post). And partly, this was because others in my office appeared to be so competent and confident and knowledgable — I just wanted to fit and be respected. 

People believed that this competent image was the real me (or at least it seemed like they did from the responsibility they heaped upon me at the ripe young age of 23). I accepted the responsibility and did the best I could with what I had, but inside I sensed a deep incongruity.

I woke up every morning, put on my suit, and went to work. At work, I hid behind a mask of confidence and ambition and did my best to contribute to the work of our office. But then I commuted home, donned my purple fuzzy bathrobe, and ate yogurt on the couch while hunched over my laptop watching SNL reruns on YouTube. On the weekends, I went to church and Skyped the family dog and lurked in coffee shops and laughed with my roommate at the absurdity of being a millennial.

Then on Monday, I would go back to work and don my confident, unrealistic mask.

Then one day, as I sat at my desk late one afternoon, thinking about the obstacle of a few hours’ work lying between me and my yogurt-eating ritual, I realized something. Every single person in my office was only a commute away from eating yogurt on their couch while wearing a purple fuzzy bathrobe. 

Or, to put it more simply, I wasn’t the only human in the office.

For some reason, whether envy or idealism or low self-confidence, I easily forget that not only am I free to be human at my office, but also that my cubicle mates and managers are humans too and have that right as well. They may not go home and eat yogurt while wearing their bathrobe, but they leave the office and live a life filled with nuances and nooks and crannies that I will never encounter. Some people are more comfortable being human at the office (you can recognize them by their well decorated cubicles). Some people, like me, put on the face they think they need to present in order to be successful. 

When the yogurt revelation hit me, I got up from my desk and strolled a slow lap around my office building. I observed my colleagues, tucked away in meetings and intently pounding out emails. I realized there was so much more to them than I had originally thought, because I knew there was so much more to me than they ever would know. 

The yogurt revelation has changed my approach to work and relationships at work. I realized that it is more enjoyable to be human rather than a machine. I’ve learned to be myself — my sarcastic, incongruent, strange self — rather than a specific version of myself that I concocted to fill the 8-5 Monday-Friday hours. My capacity for grace towards my colleagues has increased, as I’ve begun to realize that their rude comment or tardiness to a meeting or cold dismissal might relate more to circumstances they are dealing with outside of work rather than some tiff with me. 

Though I fail to always live this, I’ve realized that if I don’t remember the multi-faceted, dignified, silly, sad, joyful, complicated soul that lives inside every single person I encounter, I will fail to love them and give them the attention and credibility that every human deserves.

Because, in the end, we are all human beings, which is a beautiful, scary, amazing thing to be, and life is too short to pretend to be anything else.