---
layout: post
title:  freezer cooking?
date:   2019-01-28 02:32:45
description: it's edible
author: Julia
---

I recently decided that if I were to write an autobiography on this stage of my life, it would be called “Can you reheat this?” with chapter titles such as “My dry shampoo endorsement contract: how to survive (and thrive!) in part-time grad school.”

Joking aside, while it is a privilege to be in part-time grad school at Booth, it does leave me tight on two things: money and time.  

I'm not quite to the point of <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l8kThoZpF_U" target="_blank">zap frying my pop tarts</a>, but I have picked up a few hacks along the way that have helped me save both money and time on the food front. 

So here it is: a cohesive list of recipes that can be cooked during the weekend and frozen in single-serve containers to be reheated throughout the week.  Fun fact: if you make all the recipes listed below, you will have enough food for dinners for an entire month.

Before we dive in, a few cautionary notes:
1. I make no warranty that the recipes below will produce food that will be good.  Only that it will be edible.  
2. If microwaving food turns out to kill us, I will owe the world an apology for making these recommendations.  That being said, I will be unable to make this apology because I will likely be the first casualty.  

### Recipe 1: Chili
---
*Why we like it*: This recipe wins the award for the lowest prep-hours-to-number-of-meals-produced ratio known to mankind.  You can make it by the ton, and it tastes pretty good.

*Ingredients*:
- 1 lb hamburger
- 1 onion, chopped
- ½ tsp minced garlic
- 16 oz diced tomatoes, not drained
- 1 c water
- 3 Tbsp chili powder
- 1 tsp sugar
- 1 tsp worcestershire sauce
- 15 oz kidney beans, drained

*Steps*:
1. Brown hamburger and put in crockpot with other ingredients. Stir. Cook on high for 4 hours or low for 8-10 hours*.

*Hypothetically, if you were to accidentally leave this in the crockpot on low for 17 hours, you also won’t die and miraculously it will still taste ok. This, of course, is a piece of advice I obviously learned secondhand. 
Note: this recipe makes a 4-quart circular crockpot.  If you have one of the family sized ones 6-8-quart editions, double the recipe.

### Recipe 2: Coconut Shrimp Curry
---
*Why we like it*: With many frozen and non-perishable ingredients, it’s easy to keep things on hand so you can whip this up whenever you have a hankering for Thai.

*Ingredients*:
- 2 Tbsp vegetable oil
- 2 Tbsp (or more) Thai red curry paste
- 1 can coconut milk
- 2 Tbsp fish sauce 
  * Note: if you don’t have this (or perhaps don’t even know what it is) feel free to substitute in <a href="https://www.eatbydate.com/substitutions/fish-sauce-substitute/"vtarget="_blank">any of these</a>.
- 2 Tbsp brown sugar
- ½ c water
- 2 tsp cornstarch
- 1 c frozen bell pepper strips
- 1 c frozen peas
- 2 c frozen pre-cooked, tail-off shrimp
- RICE

*Steps*:
1. Start a rice cooker and cook 2-3 cups rice.  If you don’t have a rice cooker, make rice however you usually make rice. And also seriously consider investing in a rice cooker - they are magical.  
2. While the rice is going, heat the vegetable oil and curry paste on medium-high heat in a skillet until fragrant.  
3. Meanwhile, whisk together the coconut milk, fish sauce, brown sugar, water, and cornstarch in a bowl.  
4. Once the curry paste is fragrant, dump in the bowl concoction you just made and stir.  Bring to a simmer.  
5. Also meanwhile, defrost the bell pepper strips, frozen peas, and shrimp according to package instructions. Alternatively you could use fresh ingredients, but if you’ve advanced to that level, you probably don’t need to be reading this blog.  
6. Once the veggies and shrimp have defrosted and the sauce is simmering, mix the veggies and rice into the sauce and stir.  
7. Serve over rice.  


### Recipe 3: Kinda Pad Thai
---
*Why we like it*: This won’t taste quite like what you get at the restaurant, but as I mentioned… it’s edible.  

*Ingredients*:
- 1 box rice noodles  
- 2 c frozen pre-cooked, tail-off shrimp or 1 lb chicken  
- 2 Tbsp vegetable oil 
- Sauce
  * ¼ c lime juice
  * ¼ c water
  * ¼ c packed brown sugar
  * ¼ c fish sauce (or substitute)
  * 3 Tbsp vegetable oil
  * 1 tsp rice vinegar
  * ¼ tsp cayenne pepper

*Steps*:
1. In an extremely large bowl, soak the rice noodles for 20-25 minutes in very hot tap water until limp but not fully tender.  Drain and then run cool water over the noodles, drain again.
2. Cook the meat in vegetable oil in a very large skillet until fully cooked.  If shrimp, they should be lightly browned on both sides.  If chicken, cut into bite-size chunks and sautee until fully cooked.  
3. Add the drained rice noodles. In a bowl, mix together all sauce ingredients.  Pour into skillet and stir over medium-high heat until all ingredients are combined.  
4. If desired, serve with a garnish of chopped peanuts.


### Recipe 4: Chicken Tacos a.k.a. LITERALLY THE EASIEST THING YOU WILL EVER MAKE
---
*Why we like it*: It is literally the easiest thing to make in the world.

*Ingredients*:
- Chicken breasts
- Olive oil
- Salsa

*Steps*:
1. Put chicken breasts in a crock pot and coat them with olive oil.  Make sure to rub oil on all sides of chicken breasts so that it locks in the moisture.
2. Dump salsa on top of chicken breast layer - have some decency and make sure no breasts are left exposed.  
3. Cook in the crockpot on high for 4-ish hours or low for 8-10 hours. Shred meat as it comes out and serve either on rice (burrito bowls) or on tortillas.

### Recipe 5: Southwest Quinoaa
---
*Why we like it*: Quinoa adds some variety to our rice-heavy diet, bolstering the protein without taking too much time. 

*Ingredients*:
- 1 Tbsp olive oil
- 2 cloves garlic, minced (or just use garlic powder)
- 1 cup quinoa
- 1 cup vegetable broth
- 1 (15-ounce) can black beans, drained and rinsed
- 1 (14.5 oz) can fire-roasted diced tomatoes
- 1 cup corn kernels, frozen, canned or roasted
- 1 tsp chili powder
- 1/2 tsp cumin
- Juice of 1 lime


*Steps*:
1. Heat olive oil in a large skillet over medium high heat. Add garlic, and cook, stirring frequently, until fragrant, about 1 minute.
2. Stir in quinoa, vegetable broth, beans, tomatoes, corn, chili powder and cumin. Bring to a boil; cover, reduce heat and simmer until quinoa is cooked through, about 20 minutes. Stir in lime juice & serve.

# Happy Cooking!
Don’t even have time for this? Or don’t have refrigeration during the day? Stay tuned for one of our next articles on snacking on the go: A smart girl’s guide to adult baby foods.  



